To what extent does internet censorship In China violate Article 19 of The Universal Declaration of Humans Rights?

;;; Stefan Monnier <foo at acm.org>. It is the opposite of fill-paragraph
    (defun unfill-paragraph (&optional region)
      "Takes a multi-line paragraph and makes it into a single line of text."
      (interactive (progn (barf-if-buffer-read-only) '(t)))
      (let ((fill-column (point-max))
            ;; This would override `fill-column' if it's an integer.
            (emacs-lisp-docstring-fill-column t))
        (fill-paragraph nil region)))

To what extent does internet censorship In China violate Article 19 of The Universal Declaration of Humans Rights?



Intro



To fully be able to answer this question we must know that article 19 of The
Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that "Everyone has the right to
freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions
without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas
through any media and regardless of frontiers." We must also know what internet
censorship actually is and what it entails. To most people internet censorship
is just known as the blocking of websites or the control of explicit content,
its only use is to protect children from the adult content that is out
there. Nevertheless the extent to internet censorship extends much further than
this. According to the Oxford dictionary censorship is "The suppression or
prohibition of any parts of books, films, news, etc. that are considered
obscene, politically unacceptable, or a threat to security." In terms of it
being online however it is said to be restrictions placed on what information
can be publicized or viewed on the internet (What is Internet Censorship?,
2017). This could be anything from blocking access to copyrighted information,
harmful or sensitive content or even the blocking of certain political or
religious views that are being expressed. Internet censorship can also help
monitor and control crime that is carried out through the help of the internet
by filtering websites if malicious software or viruses are detected, though
this is often on a more singular basis rather than on mass. Yet from country to
country, computer to computer what is censored will vary.

There are many different types of internet censorship and as the internet is
continuously growing and developing more types are being implemented every
day. I shall discuss the main few types, starting with IP Blocking, this is
when an IP address is blocked from being accessed (Quick Guide To Internet
Censorship, 2017). This means that if the website being targeted is in a shared
hosting server, all the websites on that server will be blocked and therefore
cannot be viewed. There is also DNS Filtering and Redirection which is when
domain names are not resolved (Quick Guide To Internet Censorship, 2017), so do
not give the IP address of the website being accessed, therefore meaning the
user cannot connect to it, or alternatively a false IP address will be returned
once again meaning that the website cannot be accessed or they will be sent to
a different site. Uniform Resource Locator Filtering is another type of online
censorship that scans the URL that has been input for target keywords
regardless of the desired domain name specified (Quick Guide To Internet
Censorship, 2017). There is also packet filtering which will terminate TCP
packet transmissions when a certain number of keywords are detected within
(Quick Guide To Internet Censorship, 2017). This means that the person
searching this information will not receive the packets and therefore will not
receive the data. The final type of censorship I am going to mention is
connection resets. This is a form used quite aggressively in the Great Firewall
which resets the connections of web requests, which doesn't allow the user to
access the site, and it can then block all traffic to the site for a set period
of time. All of these methods are rumoured to be used as part of The Great
Firewall to try and stop and control Chinese citizens from accessing certain
information (Hoffman, 2016). This could imply that citizens are not allowed to
receive information and therefore could be seen as breeching article 19.


One well known case of real life internet censorship in china is the censorship
around the Tiananmen Square Massacre in 1989. An unknown number of Chinese
citizens were gunned down for protesting the advance of the military in the
capital. What is controversial about this is how on the anniversary of the
event each year, words linked to the events are blocked. This is a form of
packet filtering as it detects certain keywords or code words and will not
allow the user to search for these. On Weibo, a popular Chinese social media
sight, it is reported that 118 terms linked to the Tiananmen square massacre
were blocked around the time of its anniversary in 2012 (Henochowicz,
2013). This meant that citizens were unable to post commemoration posts or even
educational accounts of what happened to make younger generations aware of the
rebellions. This in turn suggests that these accounts are being almost covered
up and erasing the prodemocracy protest from history. To me this implies that
citizens are not allowed to impart information without interference as this is
blatant interference because the users are not allowed to speak
freely. Therefore, I think this instance does in fact violate article 19 and as
there are multiple more instances of similar censorship ti seems a lot of
information is barred from the public in this way.

In contrast to this there are signs that the tight control and constraints are
becoming more relaxed. Along with topics to do with consumerism, sexuality and
death even some political words which were once censored are not anymore. An
instance of this is how in 2009 Chinese media was allowed to report on the
fifty years of control, or democratic reform as some referred to it as, over
Tibet, whereas previous to this it had not been allowed (Ying, 2017). This
allowed for some sort of recognition of the events on this important day in
history. It has even got to the point where anti-corruption sites have been set
up and expose the wrong doings of officials. For example the China Public
Opinion Watching Website, in 2003, revealed the corruption of the Deputy Mayor
of Ji Ning city in Shan Dong province and this then resulted in the Deputy
Mayor being arrested (Ying, 2017). This therefore elucidates the impression
that the government is slackening its restrictions on what people can and can't
post or search for on the internet. To me this shows that more freedom is being
given to talk about sensitive topics and implies that steps are being taken to
reduce censorship and therefore steps are being taken to stop the violation of
Article 19.

One way the Chinese government tries to reduce the amount of censoring they
have to do themselves is to encourage self-censorship. They promote a culture
of citizens censoring themselves, so by making individuals think that if they
violate what the government thinks shouldn't be posted that they will be caught
and there will be consequences. This means that people feel that they have to
watch what they say and then hesitate what to post online and often don't
because they know there could be ramifications. One small method that this is
encouraged by is by giving out self-discipline awards at an award ceremony
hosted by the Internet Society of China for Internet Firms, and although this
is a nongovernmental organisation it is supported by government
authorities. Allegedly companies are given an award for censoring within their
companies and for not allowing any taboo information to be on their systems
(RAND Corporation, 2013).  This along with the fact that the Chinese government
mandates that companies be responsible for their public content shifts the
responsibility from the government to companies themselves (Punyakumpol,
2011). This then means that the companies are the ones doing the censoring
themselves instead of the government so it could be argued that this does not
violate article 19 as they still can seek, receive and impart information they
just choose not to. They would still have the freedom to post these things if
they so wanted to. However I feel this coercion from the government and other
regulation authorities is putting pressure on people and I would class this as
a type of interference as it is almost a subtle threat that if you don't censor
yourself there could be punishment. Additionally for there then to be rewards
for it once it is done I feel this could be seen as bribery and does show how
the government is bias towards censorship, and as censorship is proven to
violate Article 19 I feel the culture of self-censorship also indirectly
violates it.

One argument that many people use to defend censorship is that as china is such
a large and diverse country that censorship is needed to prevent mayhem and
help provide stability to the country. Multiple Chinese news websites pledged
that they would self-censor as it would help to "maintain social stability, and
promote the building of a socialist harmonious society" (Hua, 2006). Another
citizen has said that "Trying to make over 50 ethnic groups into a cohesive
whole is a problem unique to china and requires unique measures that may seem
unpalatable to outsiders" (RAND Corporation, 2013). This shows another
perspective which makes it seem like extra precautions are necessary in china
to prevent social disorder. It does pose the question that is it more important
for people to be able to use social media or to keep a stable society. However
I feel that some of the censorship that is imposed is more serious than just
that and that citizens should be allowed to freely comment and educate
others. Yet it does highlight a serious point where maybe censorship is
necessary to China whereas it might not be to other countries. The sheer scale
and population of the country does make me tend towards thinking that some sort
of control must be needed even if it was to just stop the spread of hate speech
or stop the promotion of terrorism, as I feel protecting citizens is
imperative. And although I do agree with this to a certain extent I still feel
that as it states in article 19 that everyone has the right to information
"regardless of frontiers" it shouldn't matter that china is a separate country,
this applies to every country and every human. Therefore I feel this argument
is invalid as it applies regardless of borders. I also feel that because it is
such a large and diverse population that this means that peoples voices may
need to be heard even more as there could potentially be problems within
societies that need to be resolved, and won't be because censorship doesn't
allow for people to talk about them.

Many Chinese citizens decide that they don't want to live with the censorship
and so find circumvention methods to get around it. Many use programs such as
UltraSurf which uses HTTP Proxy servers and encryption protocols for privacy
(UltraSurf, 2018). This allows users to bypass the firewall while protecting
all of the data that is transferred from third parties. Another popular way to
circumvent blocking is to connect to a VPN(Virtual Private Network), this works
by making the users IP address appear to be that of the VPNs, so it basically
tricks the system into thinking you are somewhere you are not. This means you
can access content from other countries without the filters. I personally used
this method when I travelled to china in 2016, to bypass the firewall so I
could access certain social media sites such as Snapchat and Facebook. This
meant that I did not have to be limited by the firewalls put in place that I
was not accustomed to. Unfortunately though as soon as these sites and methods
are created they are shut down and stopped by authorities so there is
constantly the creation of more and more ways of circumventing the
censorship. Along with this many internet users use code words to communicate
that won't be detected by censors however once these are discovered they are
added to a list of sensitive words which are blocked (RAND Corporation,
2013). This shows the willingness of many thousands of Chinese citizens which
don't want to be censored and do not agree with what is being done to
them. This does show that no matter what people will always find a way to voice
their opinions and speak freely. Arguably it could also show how censorship in
China does not violate article 19 as people still find ways to seek, receive
and impart information regardless.

However there are serious ramifications for people that are found using
circumvention methods. Although China has not officially put out a statement
regarding the legality of circumventing their censorship I am going to explain
examples of precedent of China's authority's response to circumvention. One
case is in 2017 when a man, Deng Jiewei, was sentenced to nine months in jail
for selling access to a VPN in GuangDong province. Jiewei was convicted of
"providing software and tools for invading and illegally controlling the
computer information system" (Gan, 2017). This further dissuades people from
finding methods to openly voice their opinions and view sites that the rest of
the world has access to. This also shows that even though the government at
large is fairly vague on what is and is not illegal, as many companies use VPNs
for different reasons internally, that there is a possibility depending on the
area, that citizens could be punished. This in itself will discourage people
from trying to circumvent the censorship, which can be seen as interference and
so would violate article 19. You could also reason that a citizen should not
have to go to the extent to doing something potentially illegal and punishable
just so that they can use the internet freely.

Regardless it is still arguable that because citizens have the opportunity to
bypass these restrictions and be able to post whatever they want online. Even
Bill Gates, principle founder of Microsoft Corporation has said that "The
Chinese efforts to censor the Internet have been very limited. It's easy to go
around it..."  (Morgan, 2010). This comment shows how one of the greatest
software architects disregards the censorship and makes it appear
insignificant. This confounds the point that the censorship does not limit
people and therefore does not interfere with their freedom of opinion and
expression and so does not violate article 19. This does not take into account
all of the people who are not technologically inclined and would not know that
circumvention is possible never mind knowing how to actually do it.

In June of 2010, China released a White Paper detailing how they justify the
censorship in their country. Along with the some of the arguments I have
previously discussed, like how it stops information that could undermine the
state and its power from being published, it also documented a slightly
different view. It stated that "Within Chinese territory the internet is under
the jurisdiction of Chinese sovereignty. The internet sovereignty of China
should be respected and protected" (Bristow, 2010) which I feel is trying to
put across the point that the country of China has its own laws and if the
internet is to be used in its country then it should follow the laws and
regulations which the country has set out. I feel this is a fair point as all
countries have laws that govern the actions of people so why shouldn't there
also be laws and restrictions on the internet as this would help stop illegal
activities from happening. It could also help keep order and increase the
security of the space.

Another thing that was insisted upon was the fact that "Chinese citizens fully
enjoy freedom of speech on the internet" (Bristow, 2010), this alludes that the
Chinese government is fully aware of the criticisms of its system but it
disregards them, as in their opinion the censorship does not limit people's
freedom on the internet. This therefore implies that from their point of view
they are not violating article 19 as they insinuate that people have freedom of
expression.

As I have previously mentioned one of the reasons China attempts to control
information on the internet is to try and maintain social and political
stability within the country. However it has been suggested that censorship
does not just maintain but actually effects and almost tries to silence any
alternate views to what the government agrees with. This was shown in late 2017
when it came close to the 19th party congress, a meeting of the Communist Party
of China. Allegedly in the lead up to it the censoring was increased and
cultural diffusion was regulated more heavily than normal. This meant that lots
of media including foreign films and television shows were said to have been
removed from pages and streaming applications. Social media was also apparently
more heavily monitored with any comments or posts relating to the party
congress or political matters (Li, 2017). I feel like this does contradict
article 19 as it does stop people from being able to share their opinions on
the party. This means that all the healthy conversations and debating about
different advantages and disadvantages to political parties or leaders is very
important as it helps educate the public with information that they need to be
able to form judgments. I also feel that they have the right to the information
about who is in control of their country and what decisions they could possibly
make about the place you live in. Even though this may help to prevent
rebellions and calm tensions within the country I honestly believe that this
does not justify the online silencing of people, who obviously have important
and relevant things to say on these issues.

An alternate issue when discussing internet censorship in China is that when it
is discussed people often forget the significant cultural differences between
where we live and China. Here in England censorship is generally seen as
limiting and supressing the freedom of the people under it. Whereas in China it
has been suggested that citizens interpret it differently, that they believe
that it is almost a tradition as there has been alternate types of censorship,
not on the internet, since 1949 ( University of Adelaide Press, 2012).  This
means that the culture there has developed around the censorship and that many
of the people in China will therefore believe that it is a necessary core part
of the internet and they would then therefore agree that they need it. As a
result this could then be interpreted that they almost encourage the censorship
as it protects them and keep them safe. This could then be debated as a reason
for censorship as the majority of the people affected by it in some form
condone it, which could be turned to say that it therefore does not impose on
their freedom of opinion as they are in favour of it.
